## Folder content

After providing the fundamentals of how to control different parts of given installation, it is possible now to aggregate them together and create different foam sculptures. Next three projects demonstrate how this can be done using three different interface versions for each kind of foam sculpture.

The following types of foam sculptures will be presented: squares, curves and squares which are formed automatically using microphone. For each of those types there exist an appropriate interface implemented using Processing, as well as one or multiple Arduino source code files that implements the desired behaviour. In each project we use two Arduino boards: one that controls foam fabrication and another one controls the desired behaviour of step motors. Using only one Arduino board to control everything is possible, but experimentally it has been proven that splitting the control mission into two independent parts shows much better results. 

Each project's interface is divided into two parts. The first one is common no matter what project it is and controls creating of canvas, where desired foam sculpture is drawn. This part of interface is also responsible for controlling the whole simulation. Another part of interface represents a canvas itself. Depending on the project it is possible either to create the desired form manually using drag and drop, or to create it automatically using microphone. As soon as everything is ready to simulate, a start simulation signal to one Arduino board can be sent which will start to produce foam, as well as a set of target positions for two step motors to another Arduino board to start cutting the sculpture.

Foam fabrication does not depend on cutting algorithm for step motors, thus can be explained separately here, whereas
an appropriate cutting algorithm for creating different foam sculptures and part of interface responsible for it, 
is something project's specific and will be introduced in appropriate project's **readme** file.

## Foam fabrication algorithm

Before running the simulation, mixture of soap with some other chemical stuff should be injected inside the installation to make future bubbles stay longer. For this purpose we use a **relay** that is connected to Arduino board and a simple **radio button** to turn it on and off, which activates or deactivates injecting of this mixture inside. Next step is to run so called **initialize phase**, which is controlled with a help of **INIT_SIM** button. During the specified in the source code time interval an injection of both air and helium is done, using almost maximum PWM values in order to sate the installation with the first bubbles. If it is not enough liqud inside or the initialize time interval was not enough to produce bubbles, these two procedures can be repeated.

After the invisible part of installation is sated with bubbles, the simulation can be started by clicking a button **START_SIM**. By doing so the foam starts to be fabricated. To produce nice straight foam of big height, a huge number of experiments has been done to come up with final values for key parameters of the simulation process. The simulation algorithm is divided into two parts. The first one is a small initialization step, during which only **helium** with an appropriate PWM value is injected inside. After that a second part becomes active, which is the most important. During this step the foam is being fabricated up to a certain user-defined height, which is specified by a parameter **generation**. We have a counter called **countHelium** which splits the second part into three modes by using another two counters **timeOfHelium** and **timeOfAir**. During the first mode only helium is injected, which PWM value decreases over time depending on current value of **generation** parameter. During the second mode, instead, only air is injected with its constant PWM value. The third mode represents the end of one generation, whereas some parameter's value adjustments are done, such as decreasing of helium PWM value, as well as decreasing of two mentioned counter values. Afterwards a next similar cycle with a bit modified parameters is executed, until the foam has reached its maximum height.

Thus in order to fabricate the foam, we alternate the helium injection with air injection, each time slightly changing some parameters. The motivation behind this are the physical properties of this material, which partially have been investigated by just testing the simulation for a numerous number of times.

All the parameter values are chosen in a way to guarantee the best and most stable results. Changing them can be very tricky and should be chosen very carefully.
	

